Israel and Hamas appear to be on the
verge of an agreement to release some of
the hostages held in Gaza according to a
statement cited by several news agencies
the leader of the Palestinian militants
Ismael Haner has said that negotiators
are close to reaching a deal it's
thought the agreement would see a swap
of Palestinian prisoners being held in
Israeli jails for a significant number
of Israeli hostages taken by Hamas on
the 7th of October a temporary truce of
several days is also said to be part of
the deal as is the movement of
humanitarian Aid into the
territory well as those negotiations
continue several families of Israeli
hostages have voiced concern that
Israel's war cabinet is not doing enough
to bring their loved ones home relatives
met with lawmakers to urge them not to
pursue a bill that would enable the
death penalty for captured Palestinian
militants frustration boiling over their
anger is directed towards far far right
members of the knesset's National
Security committee the families of the
hostages abducted by Hamas are against a
proposed law endorsed by some committee
members the draft Bill enables the Deb
penalty for
terrorists but the families believe even
the debate around the bill could
jeopardize the lives of their loved
ones look at us but not as an outsider
look at us as if she is your sister as
if he is your child your grandchild
would you risk anything that could now
harm his
life when he is back prosecute them
raise this discussion again but he is
not here and because of this he may
never
return farri members of Israel's
government see the death penalty as a
deterence I think that the death penalty
is required so such events as we saw
don't happen another Massacre another
disaster an argument the families are
not buying maybe you should stop talking
about killing Arabs and start talking
about saving
Jews don't tell me about how we want to
kill Arabs because it was us who was
getting killed by them not the other way
around with emotions running High many
Israelis are losing their patience they
have been regularly protesting asking
the government to do
more this is incredibly disappointing
because I feel that at this point when
we know that taking down Kamas we keep
hearing from them is going to take
months or years and it's going to take a
long time on the other hand the other
objective is time sensitive people are
dying a hostage deal between isra is and
Hamas appears to be in the works and
many here don't want to risk anything
now that a return of at least some of
the abductees could be just around the
corner let's talk to Abby on Abby is an
American Israeli in Tel Aviv two members
of her family were killed in the October
7th Terror attacks three others are
believed to be Hamas hostages welcome to
DW and we'll come to this talk of a deal
in in a moment uh could you start though
by telling us about the family members
that you've lost and those you're
worried
about sure thank you for having me um on
the morning of October 7th we began
checking in with family we have family
that lives on kots near Oz which if you
look at the map it's really right across
the border and the southern part of Gaza
and we have family living in different
houses on the kots and they began
reporting uh a terrorist infiltration
hearing of gunshots and so on and what
transpired over the next few hours was
that five of the family members were
taken hostage Carmela Dan who turned 80
in captivity my aunt her granddaughter
Noya who slept over at her house she was
a 13-year-old autistic girl and in the
other house were two other of Carmella's
grandchildren Sahar who was 16 and at
the time ARS was 11 and they were with
their father ofair they escaped through
a window and on October 8th we saw a
video of Aras in hamas's hands kind of
pulling him down the road and we
understood at that point that they had
been taken hostage uh we found out nine
days later that all five were indeed
confirmed hostages but one day later the
military came back to let um noya's
mother know that both her daughter and
her mother had been murdered by Hamas
and their bodies had been
found that's terrible and how is your
family
coping we are coping through action we
are doing everything we can Carmelo is
an American citizen and I've been
working as much as I can with the US
government and Us Media um all of them
are French citizens and so we've been
working with mcon and with the French
media as well and we're doing everything
possible we can inside of Israel I don't
think that there is rest until all of
them are home and I don't mean just my
family I mean every single hostage tell
us about the sort of contact you've had
with Israeli uh authorities since the
the 7th of
October it took a while for them to um
to create a connection and to be
forthcoming and as much as it sounds
hard it makes sense they're dealing with
such a complex situation you know I'm an
American so I think about 911 but when
911 happened the terror was confined to
that one day and the war we fought
started later and was halfway across the
world but the terror that happened here
on the 7th
required that we had to immediately
secure our borders and protect ourselves
against Hamas and so the government was
dealing both with that effort as well as
trying to understand how to manage the
hostages I can say communication has
improved but we as families don't get a
great deal of concrete information from
the war cabinet I think we learn more
from the media right so H how long was
it um into this this process of I can
put it that way that that you started to
to find out who you need to speak to how
you can contact people within the the
Israeli um uh government you you said at
first it was it was difficult and you
understood why so how did you negotiate
that it took four days for them to even
build the war cabinet I think in the
beginning there was you know kind of
disbelief that it took so long and then
it took nine days for them to reach out
to us as a family and we have five
hostages there are some families that
have 10 but there are some families that
have one and so we felt like how is it
possible that we're not hearing from
them these are all members of our
government so we know who they are we
started trying to go after them
ourselves we we started you know trying
to get to them but at the same time in
that same set of days Secretary of State
Lincoln was here we spoke on Zoom to
President Biden and we had 10 senators
from a bipartisan delegation show up
from the United States and I think that
uh contradiction really showed the
difference in the responses but again
the Israeli government was focusing both
on the war and on the hostages and they
don't they they're not the same goal in
a sense they are conflicting in many
ways and it adds
complexity now we're hearing a talk and
it's only that at the moment we're
hearing talk of a deal being closer a a
deal uh that it is said would involve
the swap of Palestinian uh prisoners uh
for uh hostages your family amongst them
um
my guess would be you've been here
before how do you you view this these
these informal um this informal talk of
a
deal I try not to pay a ton of attention
to it until I think it's real we've
gotten our hopes up we know that things
are fragile um and we are just waiting
for something to be concrete the fact
that four hostages have been released
and one has been rescued is amazing it's
better than nothing at this point but it
Al feels very challenging that we have
to fight to continue to make sure the
hostage issue doesn't get lost and that
people move on this you know yesterday
was the International Day of children
and we didn't hear word from UNICEF we
haven't heard word from any un or Global
health organizations regarding sign of
life or medical status of anyone and
right now we feel like we're we're
unsure how the world isn't screaming on
behalf of the hostages as an American
and an Israeli and a human we are sad
about every loss of life but it feels
like the world is not screaming hard
enough for these innocent civilians that
are being held hostage and what you've
heard about the potential or the
possible terms of of this deal do you
have thoughts on that or or is it just a
case of whatever it takes let's get our
people
home I think at this point I I think
there's a complexity of the ceasefire
because it puts our soldiers at risk and
that's clearly a challenge and something
that we need to not we the government
and the military need to think really
really critically about but if it's a
prisoner swap take the prisoners bring
our families home I feel
like I don't know what else can be done
and so take the prisoners we can figure
that out at another point but if it
means that we get our families home then
I think absolutely that's it's a
no-brainer for me you've given many
interviews since these terrible attacks
obviously keeping the spotlight on the
hostage issue how does all this activity
on behalf of your missing family how do
you balance that with your need to
grieve and come to terms with the losses
that you've
suffered I don't I think um you just
push forward and you'll grieve when when
there's time I know I feel like when
they're home I'm going to go to sleep
for a really long time and then I'll
wake up and grieve but in the meantime
it's just doing everything we can you
know I stood at a protest this morning
in Tel Aviv I went to hostage Square
after that to see the the installations
and the people to meet American Jews
that are here visiting to Bear witness
to what's happening um and you just keep
doing everything you can to make sure
that this issue doesn't get lost and
these people don't get
forgotten 34 children people who are
wounded elderly men women all of them
every single one needs to be brought
home we cannot no neither side can build
a war on their
backs have you thought about what you're
going to do what you're going to say
when you have these five people back in
your life
again I have three people back because
two are
murdered I um look it's it's my cousin's
son that we're speaking about he's the
same age is mine and the only thing I
wish I I I I have zero need for myself
for anything I want him and his sister
to be with their mother I want them to
feel whole and safe and whatever they
need that's what I want to
facilitate that's it that that's would
be what I wanted and I think every
single one of us needs to think about if
this was our child if we don't have
children if it was our sibling or our
parent or our grandparent I would crawl
out of my skin if this was my child it's
not mine but it's my family and so
anything they need when they come back
to feel safe and to feel whole and I
have to imagine that's their mother
thank you so much for uh speaking to us
today we wish you well with your
endeavors AB be on thank you thank
you